Name:
Roll No.: 2022322
Section: A
Topic: AP-ASSIGNMENT-1


This whole Assignment-1 is a Project which has Build System : Maven
The file pom.xml has all the info regrading the build system and other details.
The main code files are in the folder : /src/main/java/Assignment-1
The package of this is "Assinment1Lib".


---:Steps to Run The Project:---
1. Compile the whole project using Maven tools  tab in the right corner of IntelliIj.
2. Double-Click on the compile tool it will compile all the project source files.
4. Now select the file "Main.java".
5. Now run this selected file. This file uses the other two files for the librarian and member functions .


:---Libraries used in whole project:---
Note: These all libraries come preinstalled with JDK
import java.util.Scanner;
import java.time.LocalDateTime;
import java.time.temporal.ChronoUnit;
import java.util.Date;


:---Data Structures used:---
The program uses data structures such as arrays to store information about members and books.
all members, their phone numbers, ID, etc are stored in array.
These are declared as static so that we don't create this every time as they act as a database for every record of member and book.


:---Description of the Logic used to develop the project:---
I have created seven classes : book1, books1, Librarian1, Member1, student, students, Library . Now the main file for overall execution is: Library.java
I have created book1 class in which it stores variables and getter setter methods etc related to books functions.
I have created student class in which it stores variables and getter setter methods etc related to member functions.
In books1 and students all the functions are defined in the classes.
In Librarian1 and Member1 the menu of both library and member are stored. in If-Else part functions are called which we have created in books1 and students.
Library is the main file in which it runs
Depending on the user's choice, the program takes different paths:
If the user selects "Enter as a Librarian" (option 1), it creates an instance of the Librarian class, allowing librarians to manage the library.
If the user selects "Enter as a Member" (option 2), it prompts the user to enter their name and phone number and checks if a member with those details exists. If found, the user can interact with their member account.
If the user selects "Exit" (option 3), the loop termination condition is met.
Now after choosing a proper branch the controlled is transfer to the appropriate class which have its methods and thus all functionalities are carried out.